WordGuesser - Analysis

Contents
    Introduction and General Game Play
    Display Steps
        Intro Display
        Game Start and Turn Display
        Sage Form
        Your Guess Form
        Magic Guess Form
        Word Guess Form
    Schedule

<h1>Introduction and General Game Play

    A game for one player, attempting to guess a word or phrase
    by selecting letters that might be present.

    The player begins with a pot of 200 tokens.

    The player is presented with a word or phrase and makes a stake
    from his bank into the pot for guessing the word.

    The payout odds begin high say 100:1 for guessing the word
    without any letters exposed.

    If the player cannot guess the word then he can bid an amount
    on a letter that might be present. He can do this in one of three
    ways:
        Pay the sage to guess a letter - minimum bid 40
        Guess a letter outright - minimum bid 10
        Use the automatic letter selector - minimum bid 5

    If the letter is not present then the amount is lost. Otherwise
    it is added to the pot for guessing the word. The letters of the
    word are then exposed. And the payout odds reduced accordingly.
    (A formula based on the word length and letters exposed is used
    to set the new odds).

    If the player then attempts to guess the word, but gets it wrong,
    the pot is lost but play continues until only two letters are left
    unguessed, at which point only the word guess option appears.
    
    If the word guess is then incorrect the pot is lost and the user
    is given the option to select another word or phrase.

    If the player correctly guesses the word then the word is revealed
    and the player is payed the pot times the current odds.

    The process is then repeated until the player runs out of money or
    reaches the target banked amount (probably 5000 tokens).

<h1>Display Steps
    The display is fixed at 360 pixels wide/centred to suit mobile 
    screens.

<h2>Intro Display
    The game introduction appears when the game is first loaded
    or when the Intro menu option is selected.

    The Intro appears before the rest of the game HTML, apart
    from the menu. It explains the general features of the game
    for the user.

    The Intro includes a Dismiss button, which clears it from
    the display (and begins the game if it is not already started)

<h2>Game Start and Turn Display
    At the start of each word turn, a word or phrase is selected
    from the dictionary. The empty squares for the
    letters to guess are displayed (pale red on grey background)
    as table rows of up to 14 characters. Where the letters to guess
    are in a phrase (1 in 3) the words are split onto upto 4 rows (lines),
    There is a maximum of 14 character words on one line, one character
    less for the number of words on a row - 1. Table rows are centred in 
    the row div.

    Once the word(s) spaces are displayed. 
    The following details are displayed:
    Bank: nnn..     
    Pot: 0
    Word Guess Odds: n:m
 
    And the player is invited to make his first stake at guessing the 
    word or phrase.

    Once the stake is in the pot, the options are displayed,
    these are listed as option buttons as follows:

    Guess a letter
    1. Pay the Sage (min. bid 40)
    2. Your Guess (min. bid 10)
    3. Use Magic Selector (min. bid 5)
    4. Guess the Word

    
    Once an option button is clicked, the options are cleared from
    the display and the details for the option displayed.

<h2>Sage Form
    The sage form has an image of a monocled character on the left
    with a bid amount field on the right and a submit button.

    When the submit button is entered with the amount present,
    The sages letter appears at lower right. There is a brief timeout
    before the result of the guess is displayed. The bank is 
    diminished by the amount of the bid.

    If the letter guessed appears in the word or phrase, all the 
    corresponding letters in the display are revealed. The pot is
    increased by the amount of the bid and a status message displayed.

    Play then continues to the next guess with the options being
    re-presented (after a timeout). If only two (different) letters remain 
    to be guessed, only the option to guess the word appears.

    If the guess is incorrect, a status message appears.

<h2>Your Guess Form
    The Your Guess form has an image of a head with an exclamation
    mark on the left. On the right is an input for one character, the bid
    amount and a submit button.

    Allowance should be made for a letter that already appears.

    The procedures for correct and incorrect guesses are as for the sage.
    

<h2>Magic Guess Form
    An image of a hand and wand appears on the left. On the right appears
    a prompt for a bid amount and a submit button. 

    Once the bid has been collected, the bid amount is cleared from the
    display and a "Click to Accept" prompt appears above a time-out display
    of a random letter that repeats for upto 8 attempts.

    The letters are selected at random from those not already displayed.

    If the 8 attempts are used-up, the final choice is taken as the guess.
    Otherwise the clicked choice is taken.

    The procedures for correct and incorrect guesses are as for the sage.

<h2>Word Guess Form
    This has an image of an old dictionary on the left with a hand
    pointing to a word. On the right appears a prompt to enter a word
    or phrase at the input field.

    If the word guessed is incorrect a status message is displayed and
    the pot is set to zero.

    Otherwise the player is congratulated and the odds are multiplied
    by the pot and paid to the player's bank.

    If the player has reached the target in his bank (5000) then he is
    congratulated and offered to start a new game.
 

<h1>Schedule
    Project Start Date: 01/12/2025

    Item                       | Est Time (days)   |  Actual |
    ---------------------------|-------------------|---------|
    Extract Word List          |                60 |         |
    Do Phrase List             |                 5 |         |
    Analysis                   |                 5 |         |
    HTML                       |                 3 |         |
    CSS                        |                 2 |         |
    Code                       |                15 |         |
    ---------------------------|-------------------|---------|





